# Google is terrible

> Published 2018-02-26

I'll admit it -- I've been a Google fanboy for a long while. They have really
good web-interfaces, they work at providing consistent APIs for their products
(I'm lookin' at you, AWS), and their products generally work as-advertised.
They even had that motto: "Don't be evil"

My main complaint now is with their utter lack of customer service and
support.  I had heard anecdotes that they weren't the best about supporting
their customers (even when paid for said support). I had experienced some of
that "bad support" myself, but I dismissed those reports and my own
mistreatment with the assertion that one doesn't need support with good
documentation. Well, I was wrong.

Google is a [phone service provider][3]. They are registered with the other
TelCos as a "prepaid" system, in that you pay ahead for each month of service.
They also have a "device protection" plan to permit replacing a broken phone
at a reduced cost, available [within 30 days][1] of device purchase.

The problem with Google is that, even when you [trade in][2] or purchase a new
phone, *you are still charged for device protection on the old phone.* There
is no notice that you will continue paying $5 per month ($60/year) on a
service that you can't use, nor is there any option to transfer said coverage
to your new phone, *even if you've been paying on a different device up to
this moment.*  Never mind the cost to the customer is the same (five US
dollars), you've been paying on the wrong device, so you don't get device
protection.

For what it's worth, I would have shrugged this off if it weren't for the Fi
Support team being inconsistent in their own messaging. They can't even agree
with themselves!

This is the last straw. Google was supposed to be better. Google *was* better
ten years ago. Since then, they've turned into the worst parts of themselves
and pursued a business venture that lags *far* behind companies that actually
want to retain their customers.

Now, I'm migrating my customers and personal hosting to other providers like
[Azure][4], moving my phone plans to [T-Mobile][5], and doing my dead-level
best to get off Google's products in their entirety (including Gmail and
Drive).  In a professional context, I'm advocating for using cloud providers
like Azure or AWS, mail from Outlook.com, and Office365.

Google, you've failed at being a company we can root for.

[1]:https://support.google.com/fi/answer/6309809?hl=en
[2]:https://support.google.com/fi/answer/7535199?hl=en&ref_topic=4596407
[3]:https://fi.google.com/
[4]:https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/
[5]:https://tmobile.com/
