# The Pace of Change

>Published 2018-07-17

One of the first subjects my law professor discussed with the class is the
nature of change. We, as a society, expect ever faster change in our world
through additions like cars, cell phones, the internet, and ever continuing
development of purpose and meaning around those things: privacy laws, seat-belt
laws, regulation and testing, etc.  This leads to the "[superstructure][4]"
changing faster than the infrastructure.

The problem with this ever-faster pace of evolution is that the law, our norms,
and our generational preferences are part of the *infrastrucutre*. While
technology is unmoored from the limits of certain things like social convention,
we still have people who will physically assault someone for wearing [Google
Glass][1] or recording them via phone. While this may have been an issue as
early as 2008/2009, we [have states establishing two-party consent][3]
requirements as early as 2010, and by 2017 we have a [constitutional rights to
record police][2]. It took ten *years* for the law to catch up to the
proliferation of portable, high-quality recording devices, and even then our
*societal* norms haven't caught up. Fifty years ago, [Future Shock][5] shook the
world with its predictions of radical change and evolving technology, which is
also addressed in [this NPR article][6].  

As technology and our world evolves, **much will change and we must change with
it.** One cannot stick their head in the sand, say "I disagree," and simply
expect the world to adapt. Neither nature, expanding geopolitics, nor technology
will care, but with time and effort maybe we can enshrine more cosmopolitan
understanding and norms into our laws.

[1]:http://www.businessinsider.com/i-was-assaulted-for-wearing-google-glass-2014-4
[2]:https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2017/07/a-major-victory-for-the-right-to-record-police/533031/
[3]:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Legality_of_recording_by_civilians
[4]:https://www.google.com/search?q=Dictionary#dobs=superstructure
[5]:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Future_Shock
[6]:https://www.npr.org/2016/06/30/484215904/encore-future-shock-40-years-later